#sidebar rock_mongo_toc

<wiki:toc/>
= 在哪修改？ =

使用编辑器（比如notepad或者VI/VIM命令）打开RockMongo安装目录下的_config.php_，所有的配置都在这里。

= 认证 =

== mongo_auth 和control_auth ==
Once you begin to use RockMongo, you should decide which authentication method to use.
在开始使用RockMongo之前，你需要决定使用哪种校验方式。

如果mongo_auth被设成了true，用户必须使用MongoDB中的用户名和密码（由命令db.addUser()添加），所以配置中的mongo_user, mongo_pass和mongo_db就不再需要了，因为用户可以通过界面输入这些信息。

如果control_auth被设置了true，而且mongo_auth设成了false，用户必须根据control_users选项的配置进行登录，mongo_user, mongo_pass和mongo_db就生效了。为了安全起见，安装完毕之后，应该尽快将默认的用户名和密码改成一个较为复杂的用户名和密码。

如果mongo_auth和control_auth都被设置了false，则用户无需用户名和密码即可登录。


=== mongo_auth示范 ===
你使用MongoDB的用户名、密码和数据库名进行登录：

{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "Localhost";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "127.0.0.1";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27017";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_timeout"] = 0;
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = true;//启用MongoDB校验
$i ++;
}}}

=== control_auth示范 ===
你使用control_users中的配置进行登录。

{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "Localhost";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "127.0.0.1";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27017";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_timeout"] = 0;
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_db"] = "MONGO_DATABASE";
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_user"] = "MONGO_USERNAME"
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_pass"] = "MONGO_PASSWORD";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = false;//禁用MongoDB校验

$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_auth"] = true;//启用登录控制校验
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["admin"] = "admin";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["iwind"] = "123456";//在下面可以复制更多的用户
$i ++;
}}}

=== 无认证示范 ===
你无需任何用户名和密码即可登录。

{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "Localhost";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "127.0.0.1";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27017";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_timeout"] = 0;
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_db"] = "MONGO_DATABASE";
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_user"] = "MONGO_USERNAME"
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_pass"] = "MONGO_PASSWORD";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = false;//禁用MongoDB校验

$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_auth"] = false;//禁用登录控制校验
$i ++;
}}}

= Mongo =

== mongo_name ==
v1.1. mongo服务器名字，可以是一个易懂的名字
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "Localhost";
}}}

== mongo_host ==
v1.1. mongo主机地址
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "127.0.0.1";
}}}

== mongo_port ==
v1.1. mongo端口
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27017";
}}}

== mongo_db ==
v1.1. 默认连接的数据库名称，只有mongo_auth=false的时候生效。
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_db"] = "my_own_database";
}}}

== mongo_user ==
v1.1. mongo authentication user name, works only if mongo_auth=false.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_user"] = "";
}}}

== mongo_pass ==
v1.1. mongo authentication password, works only if mongo_auth=false
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_pass"] = "";
}}}

== mongo_auth ==
v1.1. enable mongo authentication? If the option is enabled, you have to log-in the system with your account and password added in MongoDB.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = false;
}}}

== mongo_timeout ==
v1.1. mongo connection timeout, set as "0" for never timeout.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_timeout"] = 0;
}}}

The issue with long-running query: [http://code.google.com/p/rock-php/issues/detail?id=177 http://code.google.com/p/rock-php/issues/detail?id=177]

== mongo_options =
v1.1.1. mongo connection options
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i] = array("replicaSet" => "xxxxx");
}}}

= Controls =
== control_auth ==
v1.1. enable control users, works only if mongo_auth=false
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_auth"] = true;
}}}

== control_users ==
v1.1. one of control users [USERNAME]=PASSWORD, works only if mongo_auth=false
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["myusername"] = "mypassword";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["iwind"] = "123456";
}}}


= UI =
== ui_only_dbs ==
v1.1. databases to display, can be a string or an array. If this list is not empty, then databases not in this list all will be invisible.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_only_dbs"] = "admin,local";//a string
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_only_dbs"] = array( "admin", "local" );//an array
}}}

== ui_hide_dbs ==
v1.1. databases to hide, can be a string or an array.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_dbs"] = "shop,merchant";//a string
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_dbs"] = array("shop", "merchant");//an array
}}}

== ui_hide_collections ==
v1.1. collections to hide, can be a string or an array, each collection name can be a valid regular expression:
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_collections"] = "users,admins";//hide users and admins colleciton
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_collections"] = "mail_(.*)";//hide all collections whose prefix is "mail_"
}}}

== ui_hide_system_collections ==
v1.1. if we should hide system collections, such like system.js, system.indexes, etc. Set to false as default.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_system_collections"] = false;
}}}

= Configuration for MongoHQ =
There are two ways to log-in mongodb located on MongoHQ.

== Log-in with MongoHQ account ==
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "MongoHQ";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "flame.local.mongohq.com";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27075";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = true;
$i ++;
}}}

Then on log-in screen, you should input the username and password, dbname which registered on MongoHQ, then click "log-in".

== Log-in with control account ==
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "flame.local.mongohq.com";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27075";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_user"] = "MongoHQ account";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_pass"] = "MongoHQ password";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_db"] = "MongoHQ Database Name";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = false;
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["admin"] = "123456";//control user name  is "admin", password is "123456"
$i ++;
}}}

Change mongo_user, mongo_pass and mongo_db to yours, then you can log-in with control user name and password (admin/123456 in this example).