#labels Featured
#sidebar rock_mongo_toc

<wiki:toc/>
= Authentication =

== mongo_auth vs control_auth ==
Once you begin to use RockMongo, you should decide which authentication method to use.

If mongo_auth set to true, users must log-in on UI interface with their username and password given in MongoDB (added by db.addUser()). So, mongo_user, mongo_pass and mongo_db in configuration will be unavailable now.

If control_auth set to true and mongo_auth set to false, users must log-in with control_users option, mongo_user, mongo_pass and mongo_db will be used if they present in configuration. For security reason, you should always change the default control username and password to a complex one.

If all of them are set to false, users will log-in without any username and password needed.

=== mongo_auth Demo ===
You log-in the system with username, password and dbname from MongoDB.

{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "Localhost";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "127.0.0.1";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27017";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_timeout"] = 30;
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = true;//enable mongo authentication
$i ++;
}}}

=== control_auth Demo ===
You log-in the system with control username and password.

{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "Localhost";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "127.0.0.1";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27017";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_timeout"] = 30;
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_db"] = "MONGO_DATABASE";
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_user"] = "MONGO_USERNAME"
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_pass"] = "MONGO_PASSWORD";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = false;//disable mongo authentication

$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_auth"] = true;//enable control authentication
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["admin"] = "admin";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["iwind"] = "123456";//more admins go below
$i ++;
}}}

=== no authentication Demo ===
You log-in the system without any username and password.

{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "Localhost";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "127.0.0.1";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27017";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_timeout"] = 30;
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_db"] = "MONGO_DATABASE";
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_user"] = "MONGO_USERNAME"
//$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_pass"] = "MONGO_PASSWORD";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = false;//disable mongo authentication

$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_auth"] = false;//disable control authentication
$i ++;
}}}

= Mongo =

==mongo_name==
v1.1. mongo server name
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "Localhost";
}}}

== mongo_host ==
v1.1. mongo host
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "127.0.0.1";
}}}

== mongo_port ==
v1.1. mongo_port
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27017";
}}}

== mongo_db ==
v1.1. default mongo db name to connect, works only if mongo_auth=false
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_db"] = "my_own_database";
}}}

== mongo_user ==
v1.1. mongo authentication user name, works only if mongo_auth=false.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_user"] = "";
}}}

== mongo_pass ==
v1.1. mongo authentication password, works only if mongo_auth=false
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_pass"] = "";
}}}

== mongo_auth ==
v1.1. enable mongo authentication? If the option is enabled, you have to log-in the system with your account and password added in MongoDB.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = false;
}}}

== mongo_timeout ==
v1.1. mongo connection timeout
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_timeout"] = 30;
}}}

= Controls =
== control_auth ==
v1.1. enable control users, works only if mongo_auth=false
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_auth"] = true;
}}}

The issue with long-running query: [http://code.google.com/p/rock-php/issues/detail?id=177 http://code.google.com/p/rock-php/issues/detail?id=177]

== control_users ==
v1.1. one of control users [USERNAME]=PASSWORD, works only if mongo_auth=false
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["myusername"] = "mypassword";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["iwind"] = "123456";
}}}


= UI =
== ui_only_dbs ==
v1.1. databases to display, can be a string or an array. If this list is not empty, then databases not in this list all will be invisible.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_only_dbs"] = "admin,local";//a string
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_only_dbs"] = array( "admin", "local" );//an array
}}}

== ui_hide_dbs ==
v1.1. databases to hide, can be a string or an array.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_dbs"] = "shop,merchant";//a string
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_dbs"] = array("shop", "merchant");//an array
}}}

== ui_hide_collections ==
v1.1. collections to hide, can be a string or an array, each collection name can be a valid regular expression:
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_collections"] = "users,admins";//hide users and admins colleciton
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_collections"] = "mail_(.*)";//hide all collections whose prefix is "mail_"
}}}

== ui_hide_system_collections ==
v1.1. if we should hide system collections, such like system.js, system.indexes, etc. Set to false as default.
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["ui_hide_system_collections"] = false;
}}}

= Configuration for MongoHQ =
There are two ways to log-in mongodb located on MongoHQ.

== Log-in with MongoHQ account ==
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_name"] = "MongoHQ";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "flame.local.mongohq.com";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27075";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = true;
$i ++;
}}}

Then on log-in screen, you should input the username and password, dbname which registered on MongoHQ, then click "log-in".

== Log-in with control account ==
{{{
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_host"] = "flame.local.mongohq.com";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_port"] = "27075";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_user"] = "MongoHQ account";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_pass"] = "MongoHQ password";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_db"] = "MongoHQ Database Name";
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["mongo_auth"] = false;
$MONGO["servers"][$i]["control_users"]["admin"] = "123456";//control user name  is "admin", password is "123456"
$i ++;
}}}

Change mongo_user, mongo_pass and mongo_db to yours, then you can log-in with control user name and password (admin/123456 in this example).